Unironically, let's hire a consultant
and see what they tell us to do with the
podcast. That'd be so sick, dude. They'd
say to like fire Brandon. I
No, you're going to want to cut You're
going to want to cut some cost. Let's do
a consultant episode. We do. Yo, welcome
back to Lemonade Stand, everybody.
Perry, could you pull this up on the big
screen behind us? Got a little something
to kick this off.
It's my attention. So, what are we
talking about? that some of you were
upset with the way I handled myself
hairlinewise on the previous episode.
And in fact, it seemed to dominate the
conversation. Now, we talked about this
on Patreon, but I just want to rest
assured
that the Toby Maguire emo hair look will
not be happening again to save this pod
because it will doom us. Did is that why
it was it was like a little lower metric
episode for us and I've it can only be
linked to one thing is is it's on you
opened the video vomited and clicked
out. A lot of people gave me that
feedback. I just want you to know that
my barber literally had a death in the
family and that's why I didn't get my
haircut that day. I showed up and there
was a sign saying death in the family
and so I was like all right. I cannot
stress enough. I offered you my hat,
dude. I didn't want your greasy yard
hat. greasy.
So, dirty, greasy yard hat. So, yeah, I
refused it. And I got a haircut and I
feel fine. If you are still
uncomfortable, I also brought a hat. So,
I'm going to You guys Let us know in the
comments. In the comments,
delete that thing. Can you please close
that tab? Yeah. Um,
wait. Cross it like exit out. Oh, you
want me to actually close it? Yeah,
let's get rid of that. There's like 10
of them.
Can you close this out? That's a little
distracting. Okay, can you go ahead and
stop messing around? We're trying to
start the show. I
understand. And he just is incapable of
closing. Okay, there we go. Blank slate.
What are we talking about today, guys?
Oh my god. Well, honestly, we're going
to be talking about why Gen Z is so
[__] lame. Like just atrociously lame
by the by the metrics. They're just not
out there. And I'm going to be the
villain's chair today. I think they're
self-hating. Self-hating Gen Z. And I'm
glitching down cuz I got hit by my
hairline. So, we all have problems. This
isn't even so much a topic. He just
keeps DMing us and being like, I haven't
gotten laid in months. And we're like,
dude, you need to let it out on the
podcast. I'm just in a longterm
relation. Do you think I should talk to
my girlfriend about
it? Scares me. Relationship problems are
for your bros and their podcast and not
for talking about with your monetize it.
You have to publicize it. Uh, but that
aside and a maybe a few other small
things like a little Lena Con
announcement. I got a tiny small one.
Kick us off. Yeah. Did you guys see that
HBO Max changed its name or I'm sorry?
Wait, Max changed its name back to HBO
Max. Back to HBO Max today. Wow. It was
HBO Max, then it was Max, then it was
Max with a different logo, then it was
Max with a different logo, and as of
today, it's back to HBO. See, that's not
even the full history you're forgetting
about. Before that, it was HBO Go.
And then before that, HBO was just a
subscription package that you paid for
in addition to your cable, right? This
uh I can't I had HBO Go. I used to use
my dad's friends family's direct TV
login to get to into their HBO Go
account to watch Game of Thrones at high
school. That's bad.
And then I just kept that password and
account saved on my computer until they
got rid of HBO Go because you could use
that up until like a few years ago. I
feel like most people have at least one
account they don't pay for. I feel like
that is most people they are 100%. But
they're cracking down apparently. I hit
on my friend. I was like, "Hey, I need
your Disney Plus password again." He's
like, "They're cracking down on IPs
now." No, I heard I heard that we can't
even steal and loop the streaming
services content anymore. The business
side of it was Netflix finally crossed
the [__] Rubicon. They finally said,
"Hey, we're cracking down on password
sharing after being cool with it for so
long. Everyone's like, "This is it. This
is the last straw. I'm canceling
Netflix. This is You piss me off." And
then nobody canceled Netflix. And then
this the subscriptions went way up. And
so everybody learned that uh that's the
way to do it. So now everybody's
cracking. Everyone's copying what
Netflix. Disney's doing it. Uh HBO's
doing it. Everyone's cracking down on
Password. We we just talked we were
hanging out with uh a friend perhaps.
So, I won't name him. The Brimson Cler
who said to who said that they pirate
everything because they're sick of all
the streaming services. So, they just
went back to pirating and they use a
home Plex server to stream everything
now. You can use Plex and your own video
files and then use that to stream to
your phone, your computer, like even
when you're away. And uh he just built
this out. It's apparently pretty easy to
do. I was reading about it myself and I
was like oh this is I mean this reminds
me it would allegedly be awesome to do
that when I'm when I'm trying to do
something like pretty simple on my
computer and then somebody messages me
and you're like why don't you just
install your own Linux box with these
different server tools and use these
client interfaces to do like a hundred
different things and that way you can
run the server yourself instead of
needing to pay a company $4 a month to
do the whatever Minecraft server at some
point my money is my time is worth anti-
tech I'm normally not anti Well,
normally like I don't want to make the
hard painful thing, but the Crimson Blur
is also lazy like that and I'm he
figured it out so it can't be that hard.
Like him doing that means it can't be
that hard. I think the the part of what
you're saying and I know you're
embellishing but the I think people are
getting pushed to the edge where it's
like okay to watch all the things I want
to watch or do all the things I want to
do, I need to pay instead of like a
couple $7 subscriptions, I'm paying four
different 20 $25 subscriptions. The
thing you describe does not sound like
some easy alternative to paying. No,
it's definitely more steps, right?
There's always a layer of friction there
that I think the average person would
never fight through, but the I think
it's one of those things where it's not
as hard to set up as you think it is.
And then once you do it, you fought
through all the friction that you need.
Pretty much I I I based on my audience,
people are pirates like crazy lately.
Like I remember when I was younger,
there was a huge wave of piracy around
music. I would pirate everything I ever
listen to. Yeah. And then it kind of
dropped off as Spotify became consumer
friendly and you know all that stuff
became and I feel like right now the way
that subscription services are every all
these young people are are pirating
everything. They they talk about
pirating every single show. I can't
think of something they don't pirate. I
think music might be one of the main
ones, right? Because you don't I think
they don't pirate music. I think they
No, that's what I mean. Music is one of
the things you don't have to pirate
because the streaming services basically
have everything available, right?
TV fan in the like the last few years
like gone from passively following the
league to actually wanting to watch a
lot of the games and it is a miserable
experience to watch sports games you I I
I pirated for so long or like watched
you know streams online of games that
also is inconvenient in its own way. Uh,
and then I I've been trying a YouTube TV
like free trial subscription to watch
the NBA playoffs. It works pretty well,
but then you have like blackout laws and
stuff and I'm like, I can't even watch
the teams that I want to watch the most.
And and and then this also once I start
paying it for it in like full price,
it's like 80 bucks a month just so you
can watch sports. And then you have all
these addendums on like which actual
games premiere on which channels and
stuff. It's just uh as soon as you like
create so much inconvenience, people
start looking for Dude, whoever can
crack the code of uh you can watch an
NBA game and reream it with your own
commentary with chat on the side. If
they can crack that where they can
monetize it and they get the money from
it, they're going to they're going to
make billions, untold billions. If you
could have like an ex player pull up the
feed, be able to stream it, and then the
money from that is commercialized and
goes back to the NBA, that's going to
make so much [__] money. If you could
just make it easy, if you make because
everyone young now watches the
highlights or the stream east, you know,
illegal stream, but people can't figure
out how to monetize it. That's like the
big thing. But they haven't even tried.
They only do it in the old cramped, you
know, package way cuz they're still
cashing out on the old package way. One
thing I was thinking about though, you
know, like the NBA uh complains about
it's it's been complaining about its
ratings a lot and how this is going
down. I think to me the most obvious
thing is it is you have a ton of young
fans who aren't gonna pay for basically
a cable package to follow the sport,
right? Uh I wonder if you add up like I
wonder if the ratings or like the pe the
fan engagement is actually going down
for for watching full games if you
include all the free pirated viewership.
Yeah. I wish there was a way to I think
that's a really fair point because
because I do think there's an argument
of like, oh, maybe ratings are going
down no matter what because people just
passively engage through like highlights
and stats rather than watching actual
games. But I wonder if you include the
data of the illegal streaming if there
was a way to do that. Uh if the ratings
are actually going down at all like you
I haven't watched offic like in a way
they would count my view the NBA at all
this season but I've watched almost
every [__] game through Streamies,
piracy or YouTube. So, like I'm not
getting counted and I assume some people
like me. So, yeah, that's probably a
fair point. I I wonder if the cultural
relevance is still there or increasing,
but it's not being tracked. That's why I
feel like the NBA specifically is more
culturally relevant than ever. Like
there's more fans and like it seems to
be a growing sport, especially globally.
Like basketball is becoming bigger and
bigger. So, it's hard for me to believe
that the ratings of the league are also
going down at the same time. Like
genuinely, maybe they should call NBA.
That's that's
and then but eventually It would just
Max. It would just be Max. Similar to
HBO, NBA isn't really the brand name.
Nobody cares about that. What they love
is the word Max. We actually No, no, no.
What if it was NBA Go, but you used your
cable subscription to log in still? And
you know what's [__] up about it is
somebody got paid a lot of money to be
the consultant that said, you know, we
have to change this name or this logo or
this, you know, millions of dollars of a
company that's in debt.
Uh, Warner Brothers Discovery is going
to some [__] to be like, "Yeah, this
is the idea. We need to be HBO." It's
not some [__] It's a college
student who started looking into this a
few months ago.
Yeah. So,
shows crazy. You have no respect for
consultants. It's disgusting. It's
disgusting. Oh my god. You wouldn't
believe the things on and off the pod
that he says about consulting.
I will take this. You guys are cheating.
Every every every episode he starts by
sacrificing consultant in the bathroom.
It's covered in blood. And I say I say
no. I I stand for consultants and the
and the good work that they and there's
no between.
As our as our Patreon subscription
revenue grows, we will hire a more
expensive consultant to sacrifice every
episode. Right now it's just deote,
right? We're going to go to get B
capital and go to McKenzie. I mean, I
can dream. We've we set some lofty
goals. Unironically, let's hire a
consultant and see what they tell us to
do with the podcast. That'd be so sick.
Funny, dude. They'd say to like fire
Brandon.
No, you're going to want to cut. You're
going to want to cut some cost. Let's do
a consultant episode. We do everything
they say and it's all based on a
consultant and like it's probably like
really fast topics. We're constantly
changing. There's like ads everywhere.
This would be awesome, dude. This is
what you can enable. I hear a black bar
over my phone. Yeah. One bar
or big arrows being like click comment
on it. I had a one close friend of mine
worked at Deote for a long time. He was
putting up a record wow hours at that
job. Oh, just clocking in on Wow. Just
just playing an incredible amount of
wow. Anyone who finds a way in the
cracks of the white collar office system
to do nothing and play video games all
day and get paid, it's a bravo. I
respect you. I have villain share. I
don't like that. And you know why? Cuz
I've been on the receiving end where I
needed people to actually get their [__]
done and they didn't. Here's an example
of a company you might have heard of.
The [__] at Twitch didn't do any work
ever. Okay, back me up. Have you ever
worked? I'm backing. This is
unfortunate. I'm backing up. I have
worked with Blur. I didn't I didn't work
with you. Talk to me about how you're
playing League of Legends all day at
Twitch. No, I played Smash Brothers
Melee all day. I my friends and people
at Twitch and this is also the case at
Blizzard. So when I worked at ESL, we
worked with Twitch and Blizzard. I all
the [__] all the responsibility of
making a show happen fell on me. And
then they would be like, "Oh, sorry. I
can't reply today. We have a big raid
going on. It's Thursday at 2 p.m. It's
called culture." The
French didn't work at all in their
office. They refused to work. They're
like, "Hey, sorry. We've already at 25
hours of work this week." Well, also the
French were even worse. They play Canam
on your side. Okay. And I I love French
people. However, it is very frustrating
to work with French people when there's
death. And let me be clear, the French
office was telling us what we needed to
do and then would clock out for the next
4 days and not help us and mask off say
Europeans in general when office culture
are Europeans because they have a higher
quality of life because they get so many
[__] holidays. I had a German
colleague who has like a bank holiday
every two days and every two days
there's like a quote bank holiday and
they take all of August off. [__]
with those better quality of life.
It's just, you know, like obviously I'm
stuck under this [__] you know, boot
heel of America. So, you better [__]
work along with me. If you're getting if
we're in the same company, if my if
you're if we're if I'm in Nvidia America
and you're in Nvidia Europe, [__]
send me the files that I have to do cuz
otherwise I have to do it. Same
deadline. So, I'm just doing it and
you're on [__] I suffered a lot
because if people are playing video
games or European or both and I and I
feel like with all due respect, but holy
[__] did that make my life worse many
times. I feel like if you push past
Americans, you get to like Taiwan where
they they talk TSMC is apparently
complaining about like the quality or
devotion of the American employees they
have. Then they're the like super
hardcore opposite end of way too much.
Everybody just has a different different
stage. In video one, they were looking
for waiting on me and I was waiting on
Europe. For
sure this chain of like who's going to
work more. It is trickle down economics
from the French to the Americans to the
Chinese just waiting for the the upper
row to do work waiting for a short file
to be sent.
I do I mean the eur the European thing
is funny because it's true like you'll
just you'll hit people up that you work
with and then you'll get the out of
office for this like two week stretch
but that'll happen like four times in a
year. Yeah. Uh the I'm I'm a little
Okay, and I say this as someone who has
been famously plays video games at his
office. Sure, it's fine. I'm actually a
little with Doug only because in a
broader sense, if you're the person who
abuses that all the time and you develop
no skills in the time that you've worked
there, which is I think I think so many
white collar jobs, you have plenty of
time to [__] off. The idea that you have
to be at your desk working 78 to 8 hours
a day straight uh is just uh to me like
lunacy like no one no one even if a
culture maintain a company culture keeps
this idea of like you sitting in your
desk for 8 to 10 hours and you can't
leave it very rarely is the person
actually working that entire time pretty
much never you don't get eight hours of
good mental work a day so I'm not a
person who thinks that is essential but
I do as the person who I've I have uh
hired a lot of people, not just at my
job now, but in I've been a part of the
hiring process at companies before this
too. And hiring people that say they
have a bunch of experience on paper that
also are capable of speaking well in the
interview. Uh and then turns out they
actually have no ability to do any of
the work cuz I'm like, "Yeah, [__] off
and play TFT Nicking for 4 hours every
day." I like that you were avoiding
naming anyone specific until now and
it's [__] Nick. I'm specifically naming
Nick Gingley because he's an incredible
worker. Uh he's genuinely he's genuinely
amazing at his job. But he does on the
days where he doesn't have a lot to do,
he comes in and plays some video games
and then he does like the maybe the two
hours or the hour of work that he has to
do and then maybe another day he'll work
like 8 hours or 9 hours, right? It
depends on what he needs to get done. I
think the problem is some people will
find this job at a giant corporation.
they'll work. And I'm not I'm not
faulting you for scamming Deote. I don't
care about that part. I care about when
you come to me and ask for a job and
then you and then you and then I hire
you and then I, you know, selfishly am
on the receiving end of your lack of
lack of skills. That would be my selfish
defense of what he's part of
the I'm different cuz I'm a boss who
says yes, [__] I don't care if you play
video games at work just as long as your
work gets done. That's That's pretty
sick. I think that's fair. I will say,
it is worth noting, this is the asterisk
for the audience, that I go to the
office quite a bit. Every single time
I've come in past 2 p.m., you're playing
Mario Kart.
Every time. And you're yelling at
whoever you're playing against. You're
mad at them. Oh, yeah. I mean, they
deserve it. That's part of it. So,
consider that for one. Uh, but I Yeah,
I'm a true I I live and die values. So,
I think that makes sense. And so you're
saying, let's let's put this together.
You like to play video games at work.
You don't focus as much as previous
generations. And you're Gen Z, right?
It's almost as though there's some sort
of generational pattern here of people
who are working, engaging differently. I
[__] like crazy, but they [__] hard,
dude. Let's talk about Gen Z because
this actually relates to it quite well.
Yeah, I do want to. Okay, so a couple
weeks ago, I just stumbled upon an
article about Gen Z specifically having
lower rates of participation in romantic
relationships. And that was kind of the
the catalyst for getting into this
topic. But I think we even on the
episode I think it was the was the first
episode we did where we talked about uh
Gen Z being more lonely than other
generations. And I think I have have
looked into things, you know, why is
generation Z seeing all these trends of
different things in their life going a
very different direction than it was for
millennials and Gen X, all these people
before them. uh specifically this is uh
while researching you know what is
affecting Gen Z primarily I was
surprised across all of these countries
the US, Canada, UK, France, Germany,
South Korea, Japan, New Zealand,
Australia, all of them have lower rates
of alcohol consumption. They they're
drinking less than previous generations.
They are having less sex than previous
generations. They have lower rates of
participation in dating in general or
like fewer romantic relationships.
Um and they and then uh and then this
frequency. So even if you are getting
older like uh for example maybe there's
a delay in uh like Gen Z people are on
average having sex for the first time
later in their life. Uh but even once
they've had sex later in their life,
they have it less frequently than
millennials did or the previous
generation did at the same ages. Yeah,
it's worth worth mentioning for this cuz
I read the I read the article you sent
uh that all of this stuff is about
previous generations at the same age.
So, you know, it they measured for that.
They they accounted for the how much sex
boomers are having right now. Yeah,
exactly. It's not like It's funny cuz
it's also that it's actually also that.
But when I was reading through the stats
cuz I was I was careful with the wording
cuz I was like Jenz has less sex in
boomers right now. They're like
70-year-olds. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
What? Yes. Oh, I thought it was also
it's also that that was the thing. It's
like depending on the studies you're
you're reading, they they are delivering
a different version of the information.
So, I I saw that and I was like, well,
you know, maybe it makes sense. You're
in your like 40s, your 50s, you either
are in your like marriage with a
consistent partner, you're more
confident in yourself. Like there's
there's a bunch of reasons I could see
why maybe you're having sex more than
somebody who's like 18,
but it's it's when you just hold these
things across the same age groups. Like
when you you look at the stats of these
previous generations when they were 18
or when they were 25, uh these things
hold true. The other thing that is also
declining in all of these places is
cigarette smoking. Um, however, this is
the one I want to put an asterisk on is,
uh, this is heavily offset by the growth
of vaping in most of these countries.
Yeah. So, nicotine use is actually not
declining very much at all, but
cigarette smoking is falling. Universal
concept. Is that a plus? I think that's
a like I think that's a small dub,
right? It's not big, but it's slightly
better. Zin's less harmful than You're
getting way more nicotine, though. Is
that But doesn't it like hurt your lungs
less? I don't. Yeah, it hurts your lungs
specifically less. I'm not going to go
out here and explore the consequences.
Also, you're not a doctor. The other
thing I wanted to mention too is that uh
cigarettes are bad. When is AI going to
solve cigarette smoke? The mark of uh
marks of adulthood that we might say
like getting a part-time job or uh
learning how to drive. It depends a
little on the country here but overall
in all of the countries I had mentioned
these are also happening at later times
in life. Uh so the main thing we wanted
to zone in on here is uh specifically
the uh lower rates of sex and
participation in relationships. And one
thing that was pretty shocking to me is
uh probably the first thought I had was
how much of a fall-off is it really?
when did this trend actually start? You
know, were millennials dealing with this
in comparison to Gen X or Gen X in
comparison to business a longer trend.
Yeah. So, uh if we looked at
participation in relationships in the
US, uh it looks like uh in their teen
years about 78% of baby boomers uh had a
relationship at some point during their
teen years. When they were teens, uh but
and then generation X 76%. So, basically
the same thing, right? But then
millennials, it drops to 66%. And then
Gen Z, it drops to 54%.
Which is crazy. And I I that that fall
off is so aggressive. But one thing I
think is interesting about this because
we're going to delve into I think why we
think these things are happening and
just general opinions and perspectives
of also people in the discord that we
talk to about this is I think the first
immediate answer that a lot of people
want to go to is phones and technology
and the isolation that comes from that.
But millennials saying
66% makes me think about this a bit
differently. It feels like a trend,
especially because it's across so many
different countries as well. That makes
me think this trend, like if you if you
just removed phones from this picture
altogether, my feeling is that this
percentage would still be lower. I maybe
not as much. Maybe there's a lot of
factors at play here, but I do feel like
because there was already a slight
downward trend starting that phones and
the internet aren't the only thing at
play affecting this. And I wanted to
open up this to you guys is uh why why
do you think this is happening? I think
it's crazy that across all of these
countries, this is these are places
across Europe, North America, Asia, it's
the trends are all the same. So why?
Yeah, I mean one thing I want to say is
so Gen Z's is a pretty broad range of
experiences. Like the youngest Gen Z is
13 right now and the oldest is 28. So
the older Gen Z's are basically
millennials. like you're based they have
very similar cultural markers growing up
and then the youngest genzies are
basically Gen Alpha. They say Skippy
Rays and they play [__] Roblox. So
it's like a it's a huge huge gap like
that a 28-year-old and a 13-year-old
have almost nothing in common. It remind
I hang out with a lot of them and we get
along when when uh when I was you know
like early 20s or whatever and all these
same conversations happened about
millennials and I would look it up some
New York Times writer be like
millennials love experiences. They're
very experienced driven. And I was like,
there's like a 100 million of us. What
the [__] are you talking about? This is
a ch me to my best friend. We're
different people. What the Don't lump me
together with 90 million people. It's so
obvious experience. This is extremely
overgeneralized and that's what I want
to say. I think I mean I think there's a
lot going on here. I think phones is one
part of it. It's affecting everyone of
all ages. Maybe Gen Z. We should clear
like all like 80 million Gen Z are sigas
to be clear. That is true. That is
undisputed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But for
everything else, there's nuance, right?
These the jaw lines of this generation
can cut down.
But one thing I noticed when reading a
lot of those comments too from from from
our viewers talked about this is like,
man, one through line over and over is
co where I feel like that hit Jenzie
like a a certain age, Jenzie especially,
like a baseball bat to the head. Dude, I
think that that racked up some damage
socially and uh cultural markers get
just delayed like dating and getting a
um a license and all these things got
majorly delayed. I think those were
happening anyway and I'm sure the trends
are longer term but man did co like
accelerate it and throw things for a
loop and maybe speaks to the aggression
of the falloff rather than not being the
sole factor. Let me throw out some some
quotes from our discord. So, these are
folks who I I pinged about I sent, you
know, uh pinged like 3,000 people last
night in the Discord. Uh sorry about
that, but got a lot of good feedback.
So, from uh Awin, since CO talking about
socializing um and how they felt like
socializing was pretty normal up until
CO since CO this has completely
degraded. I lost contact with most of my
university friends because of it. From
what I heard of younger people still in
university during and since CO, it has
not gotten back to normal in terms of
social aspects I experienced. From FUM,
the biggest part of the problem in my
opinion is mental health. CO had a huge
impact on it and messed everything up
else up as a domino effect. Uh and then
other people basically saying co like
pushed everything back. So what might be
happening is it's just taking four years
longer for Gen Z to have the same
experiences. So one quote I thought was
interesting from B2 Brawler was 30 is
the new 20. Everyone's going to be
piping in like 5 years when all the Gen
Z and baby millennials start getting to
30 since the runway to adulthood has
expanded. Hey you. You're almost there.
Yeah. Start piping. piping for first
time. I say for me I look at my 30s. I
wonder what it'll be like as my dad
described the 20s and then there's other
sentiments of like it being pushed back.
So I think that's really interesting.
And even you know again I it's like Gen
Z is not like some wildly different
experience, right? Like we're all really
all in the same camp here. Um uh unless
you're that old but uh younger than you.
But uh you know it does seem interesting
of like all of us I think have
experienced the fact that our parents
were like oh yeah we were like married
and having kids by age like 24.
And none of us do. I mean, not none, but
like, you know, for our generation,
that's it's been pushed back so far. So,
I do wonder to what degree like
millennials and Gen Z specifically,
we're just having our adult phases
pushed back and then co accentuated
that. Dude, I think that's my grandma
called me for my birthday recently. Very
sweet. And I asked her, I was like,
"Hey, grandma, what were you doing when
you turned 34?" She's like, "Yeah, I was
on my third kid." I was like, "That's
wild, man." and she was like talking
about yesterday. I was like, well, yeah,
I played uh played Hitman on stream, you
know, it's wild. I mean, I do feel like
these these cultural markers keep
getting pushed back. Some part of it has
got to be economic, too, right? Not just
phone. It's got to be like people are
having a tougher time. You know, if you
have no clear path to buy a house or
whatever, then everything seems
stretched out like that. That used to be
something you could do on your first
job at 20, 21, you could put a down
payment on a house, right? Yeah. But
okay, I I I do think that's part of it,
but that that feels like something
interlocked with relationships or maybe
the delay in starting stuff like driving
or working, but like why would sex be
affected by that? I it doesn't feel like
a good explanation for that. Uh counter
point. Some of these comments reference
the idea that um
people are feeling they're not hitting
it yet cuz they're young. Maybe some are
still in school, but they are feeling
this upcoming
uh cliff of economic pressure that they
have to be [__] ready. And so they're
grinding more or they're like more
likely to or or they're checking out
more. One of the two, but like they're
they're thinking about that in a way
where a care a more carefree let's [__]
kind of guy, you know what I'm saying?
Might be a different spot. I want to
propose a counter and I want to start by
asking how did you guys meet your
significant others? Uh I I met through
mutual friends. Okay. Yeah. College. So
in person. Yeah. Yeah. I do you agree
and I feel this way that most people's
long-lasting best relationships are
usually met in person. It's usually
through friend networks people and not
necessarily like you see them at a bar,
right? But it's like through through
connections you have rather than dating
apps or online. And and I'm not saying
definitively that's the case. Like my
current relationship started online,
right? So it's not it's obviously but
but I think broadly that is the trend
I've seen that's more likely to be
successful
getting
I think no. I want to say yes so badly.
I feel like that's my inner bias. That
is my personal experience. But when I
think about all the people in my life
that have asked about how they've met
their partners, uh especially how they
meet new people, if they've like started
dating within the last few years, uh the
amount of people that say hinge man, it
is so many people and and I feel like
online is
maybe the it's definitely the majority.
It's it's by far the majority. I was
trying to pull up a graphic. I mean,
statistically, it definitely is the
majority. Maybe the question you're
asking is like does that equal like
something longterm or sustainable or two
of the big themes I saw one is people
and everybody pretty much agrees with
this dating apps suck right so uh you
know a couple people uh Durk mentioned
that Gen Z just doesn't seem to want to
meet as many people organically in
person Tommy 133 or 1344 said about
dating apps I get a good amount of
matches but I never follow up with any
of them because it all feels like lust
with no real interest behind it.
Clarence Storm said, "I have two close
friends who are both looking for a
relationship on dating apps. What can
only be described as abysmal results?
It's affecting their mental health
drastically. They laugh it off, but
they're hurting badly, even people who
know what's going on." Um, so it feels
and that's like a recurring thing over
and over. Everybody talks pretty
negatively about about dating apps. So,
I think that everybody's being funneled
towards that, right? And I've
experienced that myself. I you guys have
been out of the dating pool for a while,
but that's certainly my experience.
Like, that's the way to go. Even more so
if you're somebody who has hobbies and
interests that are primarily online or
you're not in a dance class or whatever,
right? Like I don't go to bars casually.
So what I heard about dating apps though
um is the idea that you know human
beings are not well adjusted to an
abundance of choice which is it makes us
very very difficult to commit on. If you
think like if you're in a relationship
that you met through online and it's not
something goes wrong or something's not
perfect, you're much more likely to
jettison that and because you have a
million other opt swipe again. It's it
is poison for your brain, man. I I I was
on dating apps pretty consistently from
age 19 to 20
uh 24 I want to say cuz I'm 28. Yeah,
I'm 28 right now. Never got laid once.
That's crazy. Yeah. five years during
it.
It's cuz I I look for, you know, I look
for just only there for lust. It's cuz
you open with Mario Kart Wii. What's
your favorite map? Yeah. Do you like
Funky Kong as much as I do?
I But I spent so much time on dating
apps, you know, figuring out kind of the
the game of it. It was how I met most of
the people I dated through that time
period of my life. Uh, and I've realized
towards the last couple years especially
where I took like longer breaks away
from it. I wanted to focus more on
meeting people in person, the way it had
made me see other people, see myself.
Uh, I noticed all these terrible things
about the way uh I I interacted with
people. I didn't I don't think I was
able to show what I think is valuable
about myself in a social context. So
because you're uh especially as a guy, I
think you're dealing with rejection more
than uh than acknowledgement, right? So
you're you that kind of eats away at
your self-esteem over time, especially
as like maybe uh you get ghosted, but
also in return, it creates this culture
of you ghosting or not following up on
people as well because it's so easy to
quote like upgrade and go continue to
swipe. Um, financially, I think these
apps kind of prey upon those
insecurities, too, and like turn little
bits in uh into ways to monetize, like
read receipts, looking at who's liked
you first, all these little layers of
monetization on the main uh on the main
apps. Vine was telling me that he was
saying, you know, they you can pay for
seeing who read your messages. You can
pay for a super like that makes it go at
the top of someone's feed. You can pay
500 bucks a month for like the ultimate
package on Tinder, which which is like,
you know, that's just telling a lonely
person, you know, what they want to hear
to extract the maximum possible wealth
from them. All the while, I think you're
developing a very vapid view of the
people you're looking at on the app.
Like you, it didn't I didn't like the
way I was starting to view or value the
people I was speaking to or scrolling
through. And then as soon as you meet in
person, the whole dynamic changes. I
think what often sucked about the
experience is is talking to people
before on the app was so drastically
different from what they were like in
person. And I think I personally I this
is this is just my personal experience.
I never and I you know I'm bracing for
the joke about how I've never had sex
before but I've never I've never used
the apps to actually hook up with
people. Virgin was a virgin. What a
virgin. I always used them to date and
meet people and then I people I ended up
dating I I did end up having sex with
actually but no whoa big guy over here
wants to talk about his sex all the time
serious podcast if I've ever this is not
a brocoded shower tate okay we want to
have a serious conversation about dating
without you bragging about your sexual
you don't have to list every single
person you've been saying yeah so all
these five years Jonathan
I was going crazy. He's the big three.
Uh uh so I but I I've always this is
just my way of looking at it. I've
hooked up with pe hooking up with people
like in a more casual setting has always
happened for me in person because that
dynamic is like way more comfortable and
back and forth and you have a way better
read on the other person than over the
app where like things are so ambiguous
and you're guessing and you feel more
insecure. you're trying to imagine what
they think and you depending on your
insecurities I think you take it in more
negative directions than like things
actually mean and stuff comes across in
like the wrong way that so much about
in-person communication just conveys
automatically if that if that makes
sense. No, it makes a ton of sense. So
then you know based on what you're
saying and based on this graph here I
don't care you pulled up you know this
is how couples meet this is heterosexual
couples data but I think it applies same
toexual as well. Look, look, look at the
look at the spike in the 2010s.
Phones or online in general has to have
some like the way your your experiences
line up with this data on mass means a
lot of people are more uh uncertain who
they're talking to, how they feel.
They're more
um what is the like uncomfortable like
more more risk averse more you know I
think this is a real um crazy period.
work work was the second highest way
that people met historically you know
for decades and you know only below
through friends and if you think about
that and the shift that we have towards
like gig culture towards remote work
towards all these things that make work
less likely to be a driving factor of
like how you're meeting people in your
same kind of space it's like this it
makes sense right everybody would be
driven towards dating apps dude it's
just wild seeing every other method
plummet to essentially zero as online
takes one, you know, a total market
share. I think there's a bad combination
of things here that is like the cultural
there's a cultural shift that pushes a
lot of activity in life towards the
internet and phones in general, not just
dating, right? And then also juiced that
and then co also making that even worse,
but dating is one of those things get
that gets basically siphoned in that
direction. But the experience of dating
online is pretty shitty. So those things
interlock with each other. It's like you
you feel like this is the place you have
to go and do it. It feels more difficult
maybe to reach outside of those
boundaries to go and date just out in
public. Like I think a question that
hits people now is like what do I even
do? Like I don't go we have this idea
through media I think at least in
American culture of like I will go to a
bar and meet somebody. It's like, well,
people don't really want to do that or
or and and now it feels like, okay, it
has to be done on the phone, but the
phone makes so many things about dating
so shitty.
And now because the experience is only
there and that experience is so bad,
then you wind up just not doing it at
all. I think something that also sucks
about this is as uh something I've
thought about is people who are uh I
think particularly men uh who do the the
seeking culturally like you it is very
rare that you would have a woman
approach you as a guy even if they're
interested. Sure. And so from the male
perspective you have to do the
initiating a lot of the time the like
hitting somebody on hitting on somebody
flirting etc. you have to lead that
interaction at least in a in a public
setting. But I think what's also kind of
happened is you as the guy are if you're
a conscious guy of like being like
polite or like non-intrusive I think you
are more likely to be insecure about
what you say to that person and then
that makes you more tentative of of
doing it and then that means the
remaining people the remaining guys who
are willing to say anything at all are
the guys who don't have any
self-awareness and say the worst
which makes the inperson dating
experience even shittier for
women cuz then women are like, "Oh,
well, I shouldn't respond to somebody's
coming out to me. They're usually
douchebags." Which means less guys who
aren't douchebags will do that, which
means it's more higher percentage just
douchebags doing that, you know? It's
like it just feeds on itself because
there's a I think there's a uh a
straight female perspective of dating
apps as well, right? Where their
experience is very different than the
men where they get a ton of matches.
They uh and those matches are, I would
say, very low quality on average. The
things that they're willing to say to
you, overtly sexual, aggressive, uh
maybe needlessly mean, like it's very
hard on their end to like see like
scroll through all the garbage they get
and find something that's actually
worthwhile, especially because it's
still through this like internet
interface. And then you have two people
on both ends who are getting
increasingly
uh just checked out of the whole system.
unhappy with the whole Exactly. and
ghosting each other. And yeah, I mean,
one of the things you said I want to
bring up because there's a through line
in comments there about a real fear of
appearing um creepy or off-putting or
cringe. Cringe is the word that's used.
Cringe. They just don't want to, you
know, they're they've seen so many bad
examples get publicized or Yeah. And
then they don't want to be part of that.
That is not that is not their goal. So
they it's kind of avoided. You just a
you check out the whole I think checkout
is a good word where it's like I don't
see how to win this game so I won't play
it. Yeah. One the thing I I only heard
about recently um is these are we dating
the same guy groups. Have you guys heard
about this? So it's it started I guess
in 2022 in New York City and now there's
200 of these groups that are largely on
Facebook and it's basically women only
women can join and then they post
screenshots of dating app profiles of
men and they're like anybody know
anything about this person? So it's like
expanding the idea of your friend
network that you normally in the past be
like oh I'm talking to this guy. Do you
know anything about him? Except now it's
a 100,000 people all giving comments.
And I first saw this in like a Reddit a
post of a Reddit thread of a woman
saying that her brother had been posted
on it and basically it was just this
super mean just like hypothesizing about
how this guy seemed like he would be a
creep and would abuse women. It was just
this like total just [__] about this
guy. But then at the same time there's a
lot of people who I think justifiably
like, "Oh yeah, I was saved from having
this horrible experience with this guy
because three other people said it." But
if you just again you add that to like
socially aware guys and it's just this
adds this sense of like anything you do
might be magnified by a literal hundred
thousand at this point and there's so
much attention that's not necessarily
bad right there's obviously there
there's multiple elements to take this I
actually there was two comments in
Discord that were really surprising to
me for that reason which is one from uh
Leelin the internet has has removed
social consequence for bad behavior and
lets people kind of just get away with
it without proper shame and then and
that was like A lot of people were
reiterating that. And then uh from Hasb
is that true. Wave just highlight that
you the internet has removed consequence
for bad behavior on the whole. Yes. But
I think I think if you're a public
figure it or not even a public figure in
the example that you just gave, it has
the potential to scrutinize you even
more at magnitudes
more than it feels like the guy. So this
surprised me because I'm somebody who's
been on the opposite end where I have
been
may maybe too conscious about really not
wanting to come off badly and that has
been a challenge for me and I've had to
like overcome that and be like I am just
going to ask this person out and try to
do it respectfully and say [__] it.
That's why I was surprised to see this
these comments. There's another one I
think they're not being in mass social
consequence for being a creep feeds into
a lot of toxic masculinity loops that
they get. So I I I what I wonder if it's
almost like again like dating apps kind
of pushing people to the extremes where
you have people who are douchier now
able to go influence many many many
people because they don't have the
social qualms about being respectful or
you know they're just saying [__] it we
ball. I guess I think it's a little I
think it's a it's like global warming.
Okay. I'm excited to hear this. And it's
like it on the whole it's getting warmer
but then the winters when they happen
are [__] crazy. That's that's that is
the best way to synthesize it I think is
is you on the whole the internet allows
you to get away with so much more and
live with so much social uh so much less
social consequence on
average certain individuals get like
mega amplified this is in the news this
is in the Facebook group everybody's
talking about your high school this is a
big thread that everybody's gossiping
about in the high school because it was
shared on Facebook to everybody right
like and I think the thing you're
talking about about people being pushed
towards misogynistic places. I think
there's there's two things happening
there where one you because either
through a lack of con uh consequence you
can engage in that space and push
further and further into its ideology or
I think there are probably pretty real
base reasons from experiences on things
like dating apps that sort of make you
jaded over time. Like if there's if
you're a guy and your experience on
dating apps is shitty and you don't
maybe you're not the most like socially
confident and you don't know how to like
navigate the system very well and you're
dealing with the fact that you're being
rejected all the time and then you hear
about this group that might be sharing
and talking about your thing to tens of
thousands of people in your city and
you're being rejected at a scale that
you could never be rejected at in
person. I think that's it's the it's it
makes the the negative feeling is
compounded so heavily. So now you go and
seek out or feel comfort in this
community of people that tells you these
awful things about women. And then I
feel like that's why a lot of women's
perspective on dating is is the reverse,
right? It's sort of this men are trash,
[__] men, [__] all men. Like they're
[__] terrible sort of messaging is
that is based in very real experiences.
If you're like, if eight out of your 10
Tinder matches that you just got in the
last two minutes are asking to [__] you
tonight and you can't talk to them about
anything real, that isn't a very good
experience. And that naturally fuels
your negative perception uh of men in
the process. And I think it's funny
because this is ignoring like I I don't
know. Do you have a lot of friends who
use Grinder? No. Do you a little bit but
not many?
Grinder has its like own subset of like
insane social issues that exist within
that app. And it's like on paper maybe
it sounds like a lot of fun. Like you
want to hook up with people. It gives
you easy access. It gives you their
location. Uh you can get kind of
straight to the point. Like most of my
friends who use Grider talk about how
like they don't even know the person's
name a lot of the time. And uh it and
and that's just kind of the way it is.
But this leaves its own trail of
negative consequences too of people
talking about how shitty and shitty the
guys are they talk to about how they
don't want to know anything about each
other. They feel they just feel used.
They only they just launch into like
sexually aggressive photos and it
pressures you to kind of engage in that
behavior. there's a lot of like uh body
shaming and like race preference stuff
that is like very forward on that app
that isn't uh because of the how
outwardly focused on hookups it is. So
it's it's it's interesting is like even
if we leave the dynamic of like straight
people on dating apps, right? And we
talk about gay men on Grinder
specifically, which isn't necessarily
for dating, it's hooking up. It has the
internet and the app have exacerbated
consequences for people there too.
Uh, yeah. It's You know what could solve
this? AI. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I'm
kidding. I do not I'm do not think AI
Actually, it's not helping at all. I
actually think it is. No, straight up.
It's not. It's not. Straight up. It's
the It's It is the It is a weird release
valve for people who are uh right. It
funnels the frustrations of all this
stuff into like here's an outlet that
you can just pour it into. Talk. Yeah. I
was just people people are like
searching for real connection and
they're talking to these AI chat bots in
a way that is providing the things that
humans are not able to. What I'm hoping
now that we're on it okay briefly I I
think there's a world where AI there are
AI like dating services that could I'm
not saying be some holy grail. I don't
think they would but at least be better
than let's say Tinder. So, and as much
as I want to push back, Doug, you're on
the right track. At least as far as the
dating app CEOs are concerned. about
that. I learned about this this
literally this week is a lot of the CEOs
of these companies, whether it be uh
Grinder, the group that owns I think
Tinder and Hinge, Bumble, they're
talking about AI as this tool that is
going to supersede swiping and that you
will have this like uh basically tool or
like buddy to engage in that like serves
you better suited matches uh rather than
you spending time swiping on people.
He's giving you advice as to like how to
talk to people. This is something that
they're they want to push. So here's my
here's my concern. Let's say so I go on
Bumble, right? And now instead of
swiping, I give it a whole bunch of
information about me. I talk to it for a
while so it can develop like an
understanding of how I talk. And then my
Doug Doug Bumblebot goes out and it
finds like let's uh the Aiden bot,
right? And this is literally a Black
Mirror episode. And the Aiden bot. two
of them start talking and like unlike us
having to have this whole [__] rigor
roll where we're like meeting you know
we're like saying pleasantries and
trying to have a conversation they can
do all that but then the problem is they
would fall in love and you and I are
still alone and it's so I think the
dating apps are just going to
become the dating rig and roll like like
dram like a reality TV show you get to
choose watch and then you get to tune in
and be like is my AI getting laid but it
probably won't it'll probably get not
laid at the same rate that you get
ghost. Yeah, it's going to ghost it. So,
you just feel even worse. You're like,
even my AI can't [__] that scale by
millions of bots at once. I was thinking
I was thinking about this. You I you
made I thought you were just joking, but
then I remembered there this literally
is a Black Mirror episode. This actually
is an episode where they create a clone
of you and they put it in a room and
then all the little clones of them talk
to find out who's in love and then it
tells you you have your match and then
they die. Yeah. And I I just Yeah. That
is one avenue that I think I would never
I could never support. I I I think to me
the baseline human experience of like
why you exist. I think it's it's the
reason why when you spend time with like
friends and people you know well and
just in the presence of other people,
you just feel better. It's it's like a
chemical reaction in your brain. Brain
is happy. Sharing a banana. Yeah. that
your humanness like demands. And I think
navigating the the social plight of
dating in person and learning how to
talk to people is like it's like the
innate human experience that you can't
compromise. I think that's like if we're
if we're automating that part of life,
it's like it's over. It's it's what am I
[__] doing? That was the point.
That's the one thing robots shouldn't
be. You mentioned a phrase that I want
to bring up because it I read a really
good article with the same title and you
said uh they're getting rejected more
often than anyone like just by sheer
numbers you're getting more rejections
which where each one of them chips down
at your self-confidence and makes you
more%. So, there was a article called
the most rejected generation ever, and
it was about Gen Z in the aggregate.
Again, not everyone's experience, but
about not just dating, but like in
general, they're getting rejected from
more things at scale. Like the ability,
you can apply to more jobs than ever
before, but more of them reject you. You
can apply to more colleges than ever
before, but more of them reject you. And
you can find more dating options than
ever before, but more of them reject
you. So, you're constantly being told in
some way or another that like, no, no,
no, no, no. And I think that causes
people to check out. And I think not
everyone and not all the time, but I
Yeah, here there's the article right
there. The most ridiculous generation
ever. And it just goes through all these
interviews with Gen Z who are like, man,
you know, I applied to 300 colleges and,
you know, 295 of them gave me a no. And
it's like maybe getting accepted into
five would have been is fine, but the
previous generation might have applied
to 20 or 18 or five. You know what I'm
saying? like they're just they're just
doing more things like a a typical
Zoomer on the apps maybe getting
rejected by more prospective partners in
a week than a boomer has in their entire
adult life. And that's like a real
number. And so um I think that to me is
the most plausible
uh explanation for the behavior. It's a
very logical response to getting overly
rejected is to is to either change your
strategy to something wild, which is
like the Andrew Tate or whatever, or to
just opt out. And I think we're seeing
so much more of those two behaviors
because of this very reasonable getting
rejected at scale. It's depressing. I'm
going to be honest, man. It's sad. Yeah.
I mean, I would also advocate more
toward, you know, when we looked at that
graph earlier about where people found
their partners and then suddenly the
past two decades there's this
precipitous drop downwards. You know,
the different all those places were in
person and now everybody's meeting
online and and I feel like we should as
a society try to push back to somehow
in-person experiences and increasing
that. But then COVID, general social
anxiety, all these experiences that
people talked about is then pushing
people to stay online more, not meet in
person. And so we have this like double
it's attacking for both sides. And it's
so rough. All these things compound. I
think that's the that's the main thing
is you like like in this culture of
rejection and people getting upset by
that and then they act in new ways that
they you know I think puts off other
people and that feeds like the ghosting
thing. I think ghosting has become
normal because so many people do it. So
it makes you uncomfortable with doing it
or makes you want to lash out and do the
same thing. It you want to leverage that
same thing that made someone else did to
you and made you feel uncomfortable. Uh
the one thing I want to bring this back
to is this idea that like the phones and
internet don't have so much to do with
the trend or aren't the root cause
because we can kind of look back and see
that there was a general downward trend
starting way before these things were
mainstream. Uh you can see I think
millennials had more access to
technology than the previous Yeah. And I
I do I absolutely think that that is a
unifying thing that has an effect and is
a reason why it's happening in so many
places. However, uh I wanted to think
about things that precede this that
might also be influencing this. Uh so
one thing I think like this is just the
industrialization sort of era, the
1900s. I think a lot about society has
fundamentally changed. The way we view
life and the things we chase, the way we
want our careers to develop, the type of
like homes, the scale of entertainment
we have access to, not just on your
phone, but in general, the the scale at
which entertainment like video games,
like movies, uh that all of those things
exist at a cap in a capacity that they
did not in the past. thinking about
growing up in maybe uh I'm not going to
hit the years exactly right, but if
you're in the 1500s or the 1100s and you
were an average person, what was the
book you had in your you didn't have
books. You had like the you had your
Bible and that was kind of cuz books
were so expensive and difficult to go
around. Your generation's [__] up,
Aiden. The way the things I want my
country back
the things you know I wanted to address
this. I wanted to address this because
if we took that argument seriously, I
think there is a cohort, especially in
America, that say like we are leaving
God and Christianity behind and that's
the reason that these things are falling
apart. Dude, a phones for Bible like act
activism program where you take a kid's
just swap it in like the Australian guns
program. The gun buyback, but it's your
phone. We give you a Bible. It's so
good. Uh the I I think it's so when it's
happening across so many different
countries of so many different languages
and cultures, it is so clearly not an
absence of Christian religion. Quick
Jesus in Fortnite.
Uh dude, he would pop. You can't tell me
it wouldn't sell. I mean, okay, so I I
kind of disagree only because of your
own data, right? You had you had boomers
and you had Gen X at very high
participation rates for all of these
things. Yeah, but thinking about the
years, right? You're you're looking at
boomers. You're looking at post World
War II into the the decades following
when they're industrialized. They had,
you know, they had I think post World
War II like lifestyle and post World War
II like industrialization is is sort of
what I'm talking about. It's like I
think one other thing that I thought
about was uh the uh push for
individuality, a culture of individual
success and specifically women working.
Like 50% of the population becoming
expected to not just be stay-at-home
moms anymore and have a family. It's
like no, you're going to pursue work and
have a life in the same capacity that
men do. Basically, you now every person
in society is expected to chase kind of
the same dreams and you now have like
two competing ambitions that would be
the like foundation of every straight
relationship. Does that make sense?
Total sense. I think that those things
preede technology and I think are like
the beginning of these trends shaping up
and then they happen to like encounter
uh that that culture of individual
success feels like a baseline for these
things starting but then we happen to
make a bunch of things along the way
that made the trends increase by way
more drastic margins that that enhance
all the factors that are at play. Yeah,
it's fair. Can Perry, can you pull up
that graph again about the uh the
online? I just want to I want to give a
thought that I think fits into what
you're saying, which is that um You
think God is dead? I think God is dead.
That's um that's my idea, by the way. I
admit that. [__] you, Nichi. Uh no, I
mean, as you're bringing it up, I'll
just say like
um I It's not even that it's that it is
online, it's that it's different. I
guess what I'm saying is that the world
is different. And I think of someone
like if you think about how fast that is
cosmically to go from basically nothing
to basically everything. It's like no
one older than you, your parents, your
older siblings, they cannot give you
advice. You are in a new realm with new
activities, new standards, new
everything. And no one can tell you how
to navigate it. And I think things like
this have happened throughout history
and other rapid technological changes.
And I I feel like in a way humans are
figuring it out and we are finding ways
to adapt to this and we are kind of like
but like the people caught in the middle
where we don't know what the hell is
going on are the ones getting screwed.
Is that I could you give me an example
of how you think we're figuring it out
because I I think I disagree with that
part. I don't think we're figuring it's
like sure we're alive and like society
is functioning at like a base level. I
but I don't think this transition is
being handled very well. I don't think
the average person is I think that's
fair. I guess I maybe maybe I'm hoping
they'll figure it out. You know what's I
I feel like maybe it's a good metric we
could use of have we figured it out is
does your country have babies at
replacement population level? Because if
your country is literally dying because
people aren't having children, that
feels like an indication that something
is failing. I I I see the direction
you're going in. I think if South Korea
is going to disappear in two generations
because nobody wants to have babies for
a myriad of reasons largely economics,
structurally all all the types of stuff.
Do you think if they get everybody free
super likes on Tinder in Korea, it would
solve
the your face. Well, let's
we could turn it around. We could turn
it around. No, I don't know. That won't
work because they Christianity is
actually still pretty lit in South
Korea. They're really, but God is not
dead there. So, it couldn't be that like
a youth pastor with a backwards cap, you
know, the the I I actually I mean, I
don't feel strongly about this, but I
think that's a reasonable metric of like
something is clearly wrong broadly in
society if you can't I mean, that's not
to say everybody needs to have two
babies, but
like fundamentally there's an issue,
right? And like if your society is at
replacement levels that's like okay
people feel like they have a future to
the point that they can meet significant
others and raise a family. And if you
don't have that something is
fundamentally wrong. I sure am I how
does that land? I think I can actually
agree with you in a general sense. I I
couldn't tell because maybe we just
brought it up in the context of this
graph where you're just talking about
the scale of online dating. I do not
think what you're talking about is
rooted in online dating. But that's what
you're talking about of this broader
trend of like as for example women are
all pressured to go have a career,
right? That's one of the things defining
things that are causing people to have
less children. And it's just it's an
interesting metric to look at of like
okay all this stuff's going on there's
all these cultural changes talking about
the idea of have we fixed it or
addressed any of these issues in a major
way. I think one way is to look at are
people having families that just feels
like a very fundamental result of a
society feeling healthy for people. So I
want to say you know because this brings
me to a transition too I want to talk
about in these articles you mentioned it
wasn't just romantic relationships
there's also it is friendships I mean
people are reporting more time um alone
they're reporting less close friends uh
people people say they have fewer close
friends than ever like this is this
generation has fewer close friends than
anyone did at their age uh and they are
you know spending more time online and
and so it brings me to this article
Perry if you could bring up the one I
have about uh Mark Zuckerberg. Um Mark
Zuckerberg recently had a quote where he
said I know it's it's in the Discord
where he said uh the average American
has the appetite for 10 to 15
friendships but they only have three and
we're going to fill that gap and he's
talking about AI generated chat
Zuckerberg to fill my gap. Get in there
Mark. That would be better with it. And
so my gap is ready for you. They are
actually paying people $50 an hour to
sample your smile and small talk to
train AI chat bots. Get in there, Mark.
Get in there. That's some black mirror.
There's so much that
that's wild. That is wild. Maybe he just
wants it personally cuz he's kind of a
robot himself. Maybe he just wants you
to Well, no. He wears a chain now, so
he's cool. That is true. I heard he was
cool. turned around with the wind
surfing and the t-shirt that he designed
himself and the but maybe he'll just pay
50 bucks an hour for you to talk to him.
Yeah, to back up what you were saying, a
lot of the comments as I asked about
this whole topic in Discord were about
socializing. People feel like it's more
difficult. People aren't doing it
anymore. Uh, a few that I thought were
pretty interesting, Davius V, who said,
"Most of my friends are attractive and
funny creative, so they shouldn't have
any trouble if they put themselves out
there, but they're just too anxious to
do so. They don't get out enough to meet
people organically." So, you know,
again, this thing of people staying at
home, hobbies are isolating, talk
online. Yeah. Cuz that can mean the
problem is not with dating at all. It's
like a byproduct of socializing. That's
that's why I was trying to draw it back
to like meeting in person cuz it's not
like necessarily about dating, but it
just seems like a lot of fundamental
human interactions stem from that. Fewer
third places, fewer Yeah. And then the
internet plus co supercharging it has
just made everybody more online and more
isolated.
More dank though. So many people
mentioned the third places thing. the
when we talked about the loneliness
stuff on the first episode. Yeah. And I
actually want to push back a bit. I I
actually agree in a broad sense that I
want more third places. I think it's
important for people to have a space
between, you know, home and work in in
city. Like cities should be built with
those things in mind. Be able to walk,
be able to bump into people. You could
meet and [__] someone at Costco over a
hot dog easy with a hot dog. That'd be
romantic. It would be romantic. Me cute.
But but based off of the trends in all
of the countries we just outlined, I
don't really feel like that's at the
root of it. I think that's like an edge
that's like an edge enhancer to all of
this because if you're going to look me
in the eye and tell me that like the
biggest I'm going to tell you if uh the
cost of living has gotten way more
expensive. Okay, this is good. And the
housing is more expensive than the
people. Okay, tell me.
Uh, US, US, Canada, UK, France, Germany,
Sweden, yeah, South Korea, Japan, New
Zealand. Well, Japan, maybe not. Japan's
okay. Japan's okay. New Zealand,
Australia. Japan compensates for the
housing.
Everybody working 12 hours a day. The
push back obviously is like no, all
these places are more expensive or like
going to third places is more expensive,
but all of these places still have huge
populations. Uh most of the big cities
in these places have been growing. Uh
most of these cu most of these countries
have way more like walkable and
interactive city environments than the
US and Canada do. Yeah. Uh I do not
think like the idea that money is
preventing you from walking 5 minutes
down the street in Paris to go to the
park in your neighborhood and meet up
with people. People grind harder than
you. All right. They're trying to make
some bread. All I'm saying is I do not
think third places is the thing adding
like huge percents of the bowling alley
every corner in Paris they will start
[__] again. I promise you that. I
promise you that. I think I agree with
you. I think that's I think it's a fair
push back. I mean, you know, I think
what we're circling here is like there's
a lot of factors, right? There's a lot
of factors and I say that as somebody
who's wants to move to a different
country because of the city layout and
quality of life. I I think it's
important. Don't get me wrong. I do not
think it is like a root cause. Yeah, it
was all Yeah, that was another sentiment
that a number of people expressed which
is basically like you can also put
yourself out there and you have to do
that and like as that's that was my
experience. I had to start putting
myself out there and being more
assertive and more confident. That's
hard to do. And and then this gets back
to anxiety and isolation preventing
people from feeling like they can go do
this cuz like you can find things to do
like you can do that in basically
everywhere. If you're in a city there's
stuff to do if you're not in a city. I
grew up in not like just a boring
suburb. It's like you can find stuff to
do like buy them a Patreon sub to this
podcast. You guys put in two headphones
listen together and I want to say
something important. All right, just to
again push back from Pelus in the
discord. Personally, I pipe at an insane
frequency. So, I'll opt out of this
conversation. So, people are doing it.
Lemonade stand viewers especially.
If you listen to this, you want to get
involved in the conversation on on
Discord, you can join sign up for the
Patreon. $5 tier gets you an extra
episode every week and you get access to
the Discord. You get piping advice from
just to shill it. Well, no, no, you
don't get piping advice, but you get
piping updates. So, you can come in here
and you can put a little fire emoji if
Pelvis got laid. You like watch closely
enough, you Osmosis learn his technique.
Pelvis get laid in the last hour and
it's just a green or a red kind of like
a whle. I have Okay, I have I have two
theories I want to posit at the end of
this conversation. one less significant
than the other, but you mentioned it
briefly is that uh and so I didn't think
of this until someone in the Discord
brought this up is that your
accessibility to your parents being good
people for advice as they apply to life.
This applies to applying for jobs. It
applies to how what is the value of
school, how you should talk to people,
how you should date. All of these
dynamics have changed so much that your
parents or figures in your life that
you're able to ask for advice are not
able to provide very good advice. The
classical example of just go in and hand
in your resume. It just it does not work
anymore. It doesn't work like that.
Close like it's so different. Yeah. And
I think that that is a small point that
I think is worth mentioning where like
the ra the pace of the change has taken
role models ability to really push
people in the right direction where it's
fractured it. The last thing that I've
thought about is you just what you just
said. You said at a certain point you
decided to like put yourself out there,
right? And I think that the pace at
which you learn things about yourself,
you learn things about yourself from
like failing, from discomfort, from
putting yourself out there, from
interacting with other people, like this
uh fear of rejection, this anxiety that
exists. I think even without phones and
the internet because entertainment is so
so much more broadly accessible. You can
take any moment you're uncomfortable
especially now but even if you go back
this scales as time passes uh you can
take mo any moment that you're
uncomfortable and consume some sort of
entertainment that satiates you. You can
you can hit the baba if you will. And
because you're able to do that in any
moment where you feel com you
uncomfortable or you might push yourself
in a direction out of basically boredom,
you get to sit back and do something
passive that occupies you. So all of
these little moments in your life where
you would choose to venture out a little
further and push yourself a little more
happen with wider and wider gaps between
them. And it gets harder and harder to
learn things. And the longer the gaps
are too, the more your anxiety builds
within those periods of time. And it
makes it harder and harder to finally
convince yourself to put yourself out
there and learn the things that I think
maybe your parents or their parents were
learning at way younger ages. I think
that's the wisest thing you said in this
podcast. Yeah, that's very well said. I
like the way you said that. I think
that's important for people to hear. I
Yeah, like your your life unlocks when
you start pushing yourself in
uncomfortable ways. Like the only
reason, at least for me, I have this
content creator job and I can do any of
the things that I can do now or have my
relationship or have anything is because
I became more willing to put myself in
hard uncomfortable situations. Everybody
you know who's successful is like that.
It's like, yeah. Well, I mean, there's
just people that have rich parents, but
I'll
even those people from my understanding,
I don't know a ton of like, you know,
Nepo kids, but they don't seem that
satisfied either. It's like at some
point you got to you got to put yourself
out there and try things and fail and
grow and that's how you do anything
that's worthwhile and that's I like your
YouTube example cuz like you know a lot
of people um would say I can't make X
video or whatever but then you go back
to the fir like your first video
anyone's first they're terrible dude
right you're [__] terrible everybody
goes through years and years and years
of failure and you you succeed when you
learn to push through that consistently
and like hone in on who you are and you
can't do that by just waiting around
like life doesn't just present you with
the solution to everything. And that's
like the one thing that Yeah, exactly
what you said is like I don't think
people who are frustrated with the
situation right now, which is very
justified, should also be under the
illusion that life used to be easy and
everybody would just hand you
everything. And maybe the boomers made
us like feel that way cuz they talk
about it that way. You go down the
street and you give them a firm
handshake and you get a job. You walk to
a local dance to the barn dance at the
county fair and you find your wife. You
know, it sounds like it was if there was
ever a generation in human history that
had more handed to them, it is boomers
in like the US and maybe the UK. I think
it's because they conflate I think there
is a quality of older people that and a
piece of that advice that does
absolutely hold true. But what happens
is they conflate it often with the uh
financial ease of their life with their
willing willingness to like go out and
do things and work when a lot of the
financial aspects of that generation
success are way broader trends that just
do not exist now. But I think the
general based advice of like try things,
put yourself out there, fail, learn from
it, don't be afraid to meet people, uh,
ch like challenge your fears. That sort
of [__] [__] you grow up with is
actually good advice. The only things in
my life that I'm super proud of and are
super meaning well except my like family
all came from being willing to put
myself. You tried a lot of families,
right? You like you were Yeah, the last
one. You were willing to fail and you
said, "This guy sucks." you have uh I
honestly I I mean if you do all that you
too could be a podcaster
I wanted to yeah I didn't want to go
down that route there's a lot of options
I just wanted to say as an example
wrapping up this whole thing before I
think we should talk about a couple
other things in this episode uh but I
wanted to wrap this up because you
brought up a really really cool topic
that I know me and Brandon definitely
want to talk about with you is uh we
should talk about the birth rate stuff
and how that's trending down across the
world I think it's super interesting
discussion. It is related to a lot of
what we're talking about now, but it's
kind of its own like monster and problem
and it's very very interesting. So, I
just wanted to like pin that for the
people who are listening cuz I wanted to
dive into that so much more. But it's
kind of its own like 45hour long
discussion at least. Uh we'll solve that
next week. Yeah, we should bring that
back up. I I think I think what's most
interesting is you know as well I'll
just broad level we go on is as
governments are realizing how bad this
is how like desperate the situation like
South Korea for example right they're
all trying unique and different things
and it's really fun it's it's to be
clear it's too late for them it's not we
don't need to beat around the bush it's
over I think if they airdrop in Elon
Musk and uh the who's the Timberwolves
player Edwards Edwards they're going to
turn that
couple of
ver men. Yeah, the two most fertile men.
But like, you know, 40 different
countries are all trying these new
desperate tactics to get birth rates up
and most of them are not working. So, I
think going through some of those will
be a fun feature pod. Yeah. Uh let me
let me really quick before you go just
say thank you to everybody who gave a
bunch of notes and opinions on this in
the Discord. Um I'm I'm going to plug it
one more time if you're interested in
this. This is super great. I'm going to
try to we'll try to figure out a better
way to ask for this type of stuff in the
future, but I would love to keep getting
people's perspectives on these topics as
we go through them. This was super
interesting, so I really appreciate all
the feedback from everybody. If you guys
enjoy the show, we do an extra hourong
episode every week that you can get with
the Discord access
patreon.com/lemonstand. And we've got
even more stuff, a couple other bonus
shows as well if you want to check. We
just watched the big short and did a
react to that. Yeah. Yeah. It's been
really good. So, this was great. The
Discord is
like fantastic. It is crazy how awesome
it is. So, thank you everybody. I guess
in there. I don't know.
It's really great conversation and
Atriox hair and it's those two things.
Draw my hair. Uh, one thing cool thing I
wanted to bring up in small news is in a
Lena Con victory. Uh, well, she's, you
know, she's not in the position anymore.
She's the head of she started the
movement. She started the movement.
She's the head of the She was the head
of the FTC. Yeah. And uh one of the
changes they made was that ticket master
and ticketing sites can't hide the
prices or hide their fees in the prices
they list anymore. The price has to be
listed fully including the platform's
fee in checkout. And that apparently
just launched 2 days ago on May 12th. Uh
so now when you go to ticket master or
other equivalent sort of sites, uh you
now open up a ticket and see the full
price like plane tickets cuz they can't
do that with plane tickets, right? Have
you ever noticed when you're shopping
for flights, it includes the taxes and
the full the full fees in in the list
price. So now uh Ticket Master, an evil
evil company, is no longer allowed to
lie to you. I'm sure they will continue
to get away with some other things, but
uh I thought this was a cool small win,
especially in the wake of her not even
being in the position anymore. It's nice
to see something like this go into
effect. She had a couple really awesome
things like this. One of them was one
click to cancel which came into into
effect where you know if you have a gym
that is trying to make it hard for you
to cancel because that's their business
model is to lock you in. You can now
you're mandated by law to have one
button that you can click to cancel.
That's incredible, dude. You know what's
[__] crazy? During COVID, I had a gym
membership and it was the only gym
membership I've ever had in my life. Uh
because I would I started lifting during
dur right before co and we're like me
Lwig slime would all go to the gym
together right and I'm paying I think
like 45 bucks a month I think and then
COVID comes into effect it you know we
get past the first few months it's kind
of clear that this isn't just going to
blow over. So, I looked to cancel my gym
membership and I just couldn't do it
because they didn't they didn't have a
way online. When I called, nobody was
available and then the information
online it didn't give me any method to
cancel like over mail or on the website.
So, and it's co so I just kept paying
the subscription for another year and I
just couldn't cancel it. I was like this
is unbelievable. I can't believe you're
allowed to do this. Yeah. Yeah. I think
uh you know Lena Khan was a true
believer in you know if you're going to
have a market the only way it works is
if both sides have full information. She
talked about this a lot. You know you
need to be able to tell exactly what
you're getting and what you're buying
and you're not being tricked and it
makes things run more smoothly because
they you know you're not going to pay
that list price and they have to lower
the price. So it's awesome. One click
cancel this the thing you did with I
mean this didn't hold up in the courts
unfortunately but non-competes where you
know that's not going to hold up. That
didn't didn't hold up unfortunately.
We'll maybe get there eventually. But
the idea that uh you know a corporation
could you people like uh Jimmy John's
was putting sandwich artists in
non-competes and they when they got
fired they couldn't go to another they
couldn't go to Subway. They couldn't go
which is [__] insane, right? But all
it does is drive down wages cuz you
you're desperate. You can't go anywhere
else. Do you know I didn't tell you I
didn't tell you guys this. I put a
little addendum in Doug's contract. If
he ever quits the show, he can't keep
doing his YouTube channel. Thanks, dude.
Lena tried to stop it. Shake my hand. I
thought you were going to say I thought
you were going to say I got him on the
yard. He can't go on the yard if he
quits our show.
It's called legal expertise, baby.
Sorry, Lena. Uh, dude, a larger story
here is that I'm going to give some
credit here to the Trump administration.
I usually don't do that. I'm pretty
negative. the the I was under the
impression that the new change of the
FTC to be more proconsumer to try and
break up monopolies to have some impact
on that side would be gone. I thought
they would be completely wiped out. Most
of that stuff is continuing if not being
more aggressive against big tech
specifically. like the cases against
Google to try and possibly spin off
Chrome, the cases against Meta to
possibly spin off Instagram have, if
anything, there's kerosene thrown on
like there's more effort. So, I'm I'm
shocked about that. Has been a big
surprise for me from my predictions like
in January and I just wanted to shout
that out. the whatever the has changed
the FDC has caused more longlasting
permanent change to that organization's
ability to actually do something for the
American consumer which has been
completely like used to be a rubber
stamp for whatever the [__]
corporations wanted. We tie that to the
other thing the Trump admin did this
week. Yeah. So another credit to them is
the pretty proconsumer executive order.
Trump on Monday, so two days ago from
the day of that we're recording this,
signed an executive order basically
saying that uh pharmaceutical
manufacturers, the drug companies are no
longer going to be allowed to sell their
drug prices any higher than the lowest
pricing they sell to any other developed
country. which is crazy because right
now the way the drug industry largely
works is that drug companies make these
drugs and then sell them to Americans at
like 10 times the price of the rest of
the world because the rest of the world
doesn't agree to buy them for that
price. Um, but we have this whole [__]
up health care system where it's like
everything's crazy expensive and there
these rebates. It's this whole mess. So,
he signed an executive order saying that
the health secretary, which is RFK Jr.,
has a 30-day deadline to tell drug
makers that they have to lower
prescription drug costs. Yeah, if you
pull this up, Perry. Um, and so what
they're saying is, hey, all the drug
manufacturers who right now, because we
have a free market healthare system, um,
are going to have to lower it and charge
the same prices that they do in other
countries, which again might literally
be a tenth of the price. Like if you go
to the UK, the UK pays, you know, a
fraction of what we pay in the US
because our system just every just kind
of cycles this massive massive
expenditure and then we or companies all
pay for it and it's a disaster. That
being said, uh not clear if this is
going to hold up in any way. This is
it's very like it's so it's you don't
really have the my understanding,
correct me if I'm wrong, the health
secretary does not have the power to go
to a bunch of drug makers and like
impose fees or anything. This there's
not a law that allows him to do this. So
Trump is like trying to will this thing
into existence, but in theory, a lot of
people would support it. Maybe it
becomes a bipartisan thing in Congress.
All the people I was looking into who
supports and opposes this. all the
people who support it. It's like Bernie
Sanders, AARP, like all the people who
deal with health insurance and like
trying to get seniors medicine, the
people who have been burned by having to
pay hundreds or thousands of dollars for
for medicine in the US for some goddamn
[__] reason. And then and then I
looked into all of the the like
supporters and it's like this
pharmaceutical company, this drug care
consortium, this Yeah, sorry. Everybody
who's opposed to it. Um so it's exactly
what you think. Everybody is on board
with this except the drug companies. And
the single argument is it'll reduce
innovation. And it's like, man, I'm all
but it doesn't it it it is cool. I I
think this is one of those things where
I saw the clip this morning of him. He
delivers, you know, his Trump way of
speaking about like I have this friend.
He's a lovely guy. He's a bad guy. He
gets so and he he spends he he called me
and he told me it's $1,200 in New York
and it's only 88 in London and I said
that's awful and then but you know he's
building up to something that's really
good and reasonable something that
actually yeah all people would want this
lower prescription drug cost and my dad
my dad was the person who sent me the
clip and he weirdly it wasn't a link he
downloaded it and sent me like the file
and then also also it had Chinese
subtitles so it your dad's on [__]
Waybo getting his news updates on Yeah.
And I was like, "Dad, we're already
watching this." Uh, I thought that, but
this was one of those things where it's
like, I kind of will believe it when I
see it, but if it happens, this is this
would be fantastic. The odds that this
goes through. Let me let me jump into
that. I want to talk about this is like,
okay, two things. Number one, you
mentioned uh free market. I think I just
want to push back and I want to say our
healthare system is nothing like a free
it's it it is completely it's immersed
with middlemen and and and rules and
regulations. By free market I mean the
drug manufacturers can set whatever
prices they want and there isn't a
government agency basically enforcing
some degree of pricing even in the case
like the UK you basically have a single
healthcare provider. So if a drug
company from the US goes to like Ozmpic
for example goes to Nova Nortis, they go
to the UK and they say we want to sell
you Ompic for $1,000 like we do to the
Americans. Yeah. Britain says no [__]
off. And they keep saying no [__] off up
until Novo agrees to sell it for like a
$100. We don't have that in America.
There's all these different players
though. That is like them saying we'll
walk if you don't like if you go to the
store and you and they want to sell you
a car for a million dollars and you say
no till they lower the price. But in
America, the insurance companies, the
far like they all have the option to not
buy these things. They just don't have
enough negotiating power. It is a
market. Okay, here's the thing. In
America, the the you know like Medicare,
Medicaid, the government is not allowed
to negotiate legally. The pharmaceutical
lobby has written. So that is yes that
is they cannot negot they cannot use
their market power like let me give you
example of Walmart shut up shut up don't
come from my free markets example is
like this is not a great example but off
the top of my head like Walmart right if
they go to Tide and want them to lower
the price of the detergent they they do
this all the time they they say hey
listen we're not going to let you be on
our shelves once you lower the price so
Tide knowing that they have access to
all these consumers does their best to
lower the price
yeah Medicaid specifically can't so that
[__] it up a lot okay so And I want to
say also I I am not of the opinion that
pure free market works for healthcare
because you know if I go to buy a Honda
Civic and I don't like it and they give
me a bad price, I can go buy a Toyota
and it's fine. But if I go to buy
insulin and I don't like it and I can't
go I die like it doesn't the ability to
die you cannot walk. The ability to walk
is like the core essence of a good
market and like you can't do that with
healthcare. You will die. So I 100%
agree some he has so many stupid
examples.
What I want to say here is this uh thing
that Trump is talking about this
matching UK US healthcare prices to like
the Europe and other countries is what
Bernie Sanders has been pushing for for
a long time. Like this is a core
platform of his original run for
president. And RFK mentioned this in
this speech. He mentioned like this is a
part of uh Bernie Sanders ran on these
exact ideas but they never got them
through. So um and Bernie's response to
this which I think was profound which is
like hey this has been tried before. or
Trump himself signed a similar deal in
in term one and the courts always block
it. And so it becomes this thing where
you get this headline and you're like,
"Hey, this is great." But the only real
way to do it is to push comprehensive
legislation through Congress, which they
never do. So it's like becomes this
executive order where you where it's
almost like setting up to have the
courts block it so you can then
denigrate judges. Like that's to me it
feels more like, "Hey, I can do this
thing that everyone agrees is great. it
will get blocked by the courts because
we're not doing it the normal right way.
And then I can go, why the [__] are
judges allowed to do this? Let's let's
get rid of judges. Which is like a real
like a weird bad lineup. Like I I you
know what I'm saying? I don't like the
way that's headed. Um it's like setting
up for an easy win against the judicial
system, which is not so I I completely
get what you're saying. for people who
have kind of not followed this deeply
largely what the what Trump has done in
his ad in his administration so far is
dropped tons of executive orders which
to be clear are less they have less
legal authority than Congress who is the
one who's supposed to be writing laws.
So it's like he can write these it's not
supposed to be a law but he can write
these like orders of what happens right
but if Congress comes in and overrites
it or the jud or the judicial system
overrites it it's gone. So this
executive order that he signs is only
relevant up until the legal system
confirms, yes, this is legit, right? Or
Congress comes in and like reinforces it
with a real law. So this is a this is a
vibe. He's shooting a vibe out into the
world. And if anybody if a if a federal
judge comes in and like tries to stop
it, it will go. And I just want to be
clear, he has written this this exact
vibe at the end of his last term and it
got blocked. It was different. It was
only for Medicare. Okay. But I you mean
it was it was the idea of matching drug
prices to them and that got blocked.
This is more expansive and will likely
get blocked. Yeah. So like if you're a
president who has a problem with the
judiciary, one thing you can do is say I
think everyone should get free candy
executive order. And then when the judge
goes that's you can't have that
authority. You can't do that. Then
suddenly you go wow the judges want to
block your free candy and it's a
problem. So like I think Bernie's
response to this was measured which is
like hey I agree with the theory of this
but the way you are doing it is it seems
like a different goal and that that's my
push back like I agree with this idea.
Yeah. So I'm on the same page. I think
what I'm hoping for with this, I think
it's very unlikely this this stays.
There's no, you know, obviously the
pharma industry is like one of the
heaviest lobbying, right? So, they're
going to do everything they can to stop
this. Um, in theory though, people are
so pissed off at the pharma industry and
this headline is big enough that this
would then incentivize Congress to act,
right? if you can ra cuz like I didn't
even know that he did anything like this
in the last Trump election cuz that
Trump or the Trump uh administration
because the first Trump term was so
obscenely chaotic. He signed that in
like 2019 or 2020. So this is around
January 6th, right? Like that got
completely overshadowed by everything
else. That was big. Yeah. And I think
this this has more of an opportunity to
get like bipartisan people across the
board to be like, "Yes, this should be
happening." At the very least, Medicare
and Medicaid should be able to negotiate
prices cuz that [__] crazy. 100
million%. I read that that's changing
soon, but I didn't read more into why
cuz that's baffling. And and I just want
to I mean, you could jump in here a
second. I just want to say like you
touched on it, but it really is like one
of the deepest rots at the heart of our
system is that we have an extraordinary
number of well-paid pharma lobbyists, at
least one per senator, one per
congressman, one per legislator that are
just full-time job is to like funnel
money into these people to make sure
they don't make any progress on making
healthcare better. 100% hate that. And I
think this is against their interest,
but I do want to say like the day this
executive order came out um or was
announced the headline, their stock
prices dropped because they're like,
"Okay, this is bad." And they have
immediately bounced back and people have
realized it's not going to get through.
So,
um an idea that has no chance of
succeeding or isn't or isn't made with
the is made for a headline and not for
real things is almost just as bad. Like
I I want a real change. I don't want
brownie points. I don't want someone
Well, do do you feel like do do you feel
like so let's say he puts So I agree
this is largely performative. It is
extremely unlikely this lands but this
is going to be talked about enough I
mean we are talking about it as an
example that in theory the conversation
is now increasing around this topic and
we could move towards Congress enacting
something like this sooner and if him
making what is uh you know let's say
this like vapid gesture but if it
results in people becoming angrier and
more passionate and pushing Congress to
do this earlier than they would have
otherwise the point that seems good to
me in 30 days when this is supposed to
have happened when supposed to have
dropped all their prices cuz right now
like insulin in America $100 in Canada
$12 right okay in 30 days they have to
equalize they have to figure that out
according to [__] afraid so when they
don't do that in 30 days are people
going to get mad at Congress and say hey
get this bill passed or are they going
to get mad at the judiciary for blocking
his law and that is where I'm I'm
worried if if it's all setting up to get
you mad at the judges then I think
that's kind of [__] because this is an
executive order that has beyond his
authority but if you get mad at Congress
and we go hey shut the [__] up
bipartisan pass this, get uh pills lower
price, then I'm all for. I would love I
think again the spirit of this is one of
the best things Trump has done. I
totally agree with it. It's insane that
we spend four, five, 10x for the same
drug across a border. Like Canada is
right there. It's the same there same
company. Canada is just like, "No, we're
not going to [__] pay that much." And
then in America, all the all the parties
are just like, "Yeah, this is great
because everybody benefits from it
except patients." Dude, the cable
companies do the same thing with every
small town in America where they lobby
to make sure they can't have negotiating
power over who lays cable wire and who
It's great. We all pay more because no
one's allowed to literally negotiate on
a group of people. Um I agree. I Anyway,
you're free
I think uh you you're jump sorry I cut
you off. No, your your point about the
lobbying was the main thing I wanted to
get to. Uh, but I wanted to come back to
what you said about R&D being the
defense because I think there's a very
good point to be made here that this is
often and Trump brought this up as in uh
he thinks that the prices that the
Americans are paying are basically
subsidizing R&D that the other countries
don't have to pay for because they pay
such lower prices, right? However,
something that I learned uh last year
was that R&D is a bit of a myth in how
drug companies actually choose to use
the money that they have. And it is much
safer for you rather than developing
some sort of new life-saving treatment
like spending a ton of money in order to
cure some incurable disease or pursue
something really niche and expensive,
especially as medicine gets better over
time, right? the things that are left
are harder and harder to crack. We spent
a lot of time talking about that in the
last episode. The problem with R&D is a
lot of the money just goes towards
iterating on existing drugs so that you
can renew licenses or patents on
technology that basically already
exists, mark it up, and resell it to
people as an upgraded or a new version
of the medication they're taking. And
that is like 90% of R&D spending. I saw
this. I would like to read more about
that. I'm not trying to defend pharma
companies here, but like because it does
take a lot to develop drugs, right? No,
absolutely. Think about it even from a
purely economic perspective, right? In
and this is actually something uh was in
uh abundance. Uh it talked
kill him. It talked about how the people
uh in the last few decades there's
decreasing motivation to spend money on
and take risks on new drug or scientific
development because the return is way
less certain and it is way better for
you of um medical innovations. What what
was Lena Lena Khan's example with we we
could use something similar to those uh
why can I not think of the word inhalers
inhalers where they made the tiny the
the inhalers were about to become like
public domain and then they adjusted
they changed the plastic part of the cap
on the inhalers so that they could renew
the patent and continue charging a
higher price is they just made it worse
like it has a little strap on there or
whatever when you take the cap off so it
stays on but now it's annoying and
people are annoy that that was the only
thing they added and it to maintain the
so most of drug R&D
in the US R&D expense is going into
making iterative versions of drugs that
already exist so they can renew their
ownership over that thing and maintain
the monopoly over that drug. And uh I
think that is the problem is when this
defense comes up including when Trump
mentions it during that speech uh in you
know his Trump fashion where he kind of
explains it but doesn't identify it.
It's very weird. Uh, but all I'm saying
is people rarely talk about that part.
It's just like, well, it's getting put
into discovering new cures for things,
but that isn't really the case. And the
financial incentives aren't necessarily
there for it to be the case. That that
completely makes sense. I agree with
that. I just I just want to I'm just
always cautious when people's takeaway
is like, "Fuck all these companies.
They're pieces of shit." It's like, no,
actually, it's really important that
companies develop new drugs, right? Like
this is And I just want to make sure
that we're also acknowledging that there
is good to pharmaceutical companies
making money. Should they be making this
much money? No, I don't think so. Should
they be doing what they're doing like
you just described and doing iterative
drugs and then using that as an excuse
to profit like crazy? No, that's
obviously [__] and that shouldn't
happen. But there needs we do need some
kind of financial ability for drugs to
be developed. And that's all and just
and even another angle of this is maybe
what needs to change the vast majority
of the price of developing a new drug is
actually trials. It is getting it
through uh FTC. Oh my god, I'm blaming
FDA. Yeah. So getting it through FDA. So
that's where the majority of the cost of
developing a drug comes from. And I've
heard from multiple scientists. I don't
know enough about this to to comment on
it, but it's a sentiment I've seen
multiple times from biologists of the
the process to get new drugs approved is
actually too arduous and cumbersome and
expensive. And there might be a way to
obviously not remove all clinical
studies, but maybe streamline it in some
way or make it more efficient or
something. I have certain rules for
different types of drugs so you can
incentivize a company to develop a new
drug without them then needing to make
some obscene amount of profit on the
back end. Yeah, that's there's obviously
like everything there's there's nuance
and of I the system that we have is
abysmal terrible is abysmal. I'll just
say I looked through the numbers because
I had a similar thought, but I wanted to
get the stats and and they're pretty
damning for the pharma companies in that
the majority of the profit they make
goes more to over half goes to marketing
versus R&D and uh you know the bonuses
they're paying out to executives, right?
It's insane. It's just not enough going
to R&D that you'd expect this argument
to work. And I will say I keep using the
insulin example because it's the one I
can remember easily, but there's other
drugs. But like insulin in Canada sells
for $12 a vial and it costs them $2 to$4
dollar to make. It also costs $2 to four
dollars to make and they sell it for 104
in America. That extra I mean a $12
profit $12 to four is $8 profit. That's
a huge profit margin already in Canada.
They're they're making enough to be a
justifiable working business if that was
the same everywhere. So the idea that it
has to be a,000% or 2,000% is is absurd.
like it it wouldn't exist in any market
where they hadn't captured the
government and are using it as a
particular when the profit the profit
comes from somebody the person paying
the increased prices is patience in
America it isn't like you're offering
our own tax dollar so again a huge we
have a massive budget deficit problem a
huge part of that goes to Medicare and
Medicaid which are just paying absurd
above list prices for all these drugs I
mean yeah the American taxpayer is a
global pay for crazy when you think
about the
expenditure per capita ratio of our
healthcare spending compared to other
countries for lower quality quality and
and we don't live as long, we're sicker,
we're angry, we're more depressed, like
it's not working, we're paying more. It
it is I mean bring the Bible back and
and and we let God back into this
country and into Japan and into I want
God injected into my body by Novon
Nordis.
One one thing, this is the I I got to
I'm sorry. Yeah, AI might help. No, no,
no. I was getting on that. No, no. So,
so really just very briefly what we
talked about last episode, if you
watched the whole thing towards the end,
we talked about the major breakthroughs
in drug discovery because of the tools
that people are developing. One of the
things that makes me hopeful is that we
can push back on pharma companies by
basically saying, look, we are also
developing tools to make drug creation a
hundred times cheaper or a thousand
times cheaper and faster. And if you do
that, then this excuse of we need to
make $20 billion to make the next drug
that falls away. And so I I'm hopeful
that that will start to actually change.
Yeah. I mean, me too. I I think the the
core for me, the core rod of it is
lobbying or the ability to just money
and politics, Citizens United, because,
you know, it's so funny that even big
mega corpse like Google with fiber or
Amazon trying to do healthcare, they
couldn't break in. Like they they were
so blocked by the regulatory middleman
net that they couldn't even get in to
compete and they have all the money and
it it no one can actually offer a better
service lower price than these guys
because they have completely monopolized
the government to make sure that they
have the fattest margins. Uh that's big
short.
Don't talk about my margins. Nice and
fat. Make sure you make it in women's or
what men.
Uh so yeah, I mean that that is to me
it's one of the more radicalizing
things. Like when you read about
American healthcare, there's just
nothing good about it. And it's not
somebody getting, you know, a worse
product at a worse price. They're just
dying. Like people are dying. Families
are dying every day.
Um it's horrendous. We have we have such
a [__] healthare system for such a rich
country. And you might even push back.
You might take action. There there's
there's ways that are positive. There's
a lot a lot of the best medical talent
ends up coming to the US because of
these kind of gross profits. I do agree
that the there are some diamonds in the
rough but yes broadly it's it's pretty
[__] Yeah. If you're talking about like
quality quality of care if you have
unlimited money. Yeah.
Excellent. We have a good system for
rich people. It's it's solid. It's very
good. But obviously that is not the
best. I I see what you're saying. If I
redeeming point is like there is a need
for a private like private people to
have the motivation to seek outcomes in
in in healthcare. There is a motivate a
reason to have that. I think uh you know
us I think to me the co vaccines are
actually a good example of that is like
sure private companies Bill Gates had a
private motivation to put a microchip in
it and uh but even it's not a great
example cuz basically the governments
started it by saying we'll pay you a
shitload of money we guarantee this much
business right no but that's what I mean
is like there's a there's a utility of
those private companies in that
situation and I think there uh yeah
anyway I yeah I just want to at least at
least vote vocalize the nuance cuz I
think it's so easy to be like [__] the
whole system and it's like no no no hold
on there there there's a lot going on
here there are things we need to
preserve even if we radically change
things right you you might have a good
perspective on this with how many of
your family are working right everybody
in my family are doctors like so so to
say like all the healthcare is worse
everything it's like no this is not true
you have like really really smart
talented people in the medical industry
but you have perverse incentives so for
example if you go to if you go to
medical school and you come out of it
$300,000 and dollar in debt and the
option is do you want to go be a primary
care physician where you have to like
arguably how harder is the wrong way to
put it but it's an extremely stressful
high volume job where you're cranking
through patients you don't get to like
really follow up with people in a
meaningful way because you're just
trying to get through as many as
possible and you get paid less a lot
less than if you go become a specialist
and open your own clinic right you
become a dermatologist or a surgeon or
whatever else it causes us to have a a
lack of healthcare providers in primary
care which is some of the most important
important if you were talking about
preventative medicine or whatever else
and then and then people like in many
cases the best people if you're getting
surgery you know cancer treatment a lot
of people come to America for the best
cancer treatment and somebody listening
is in their derm residency right now and
they're nodding their head like yeah
[__] yeah that's how it is yeah I'm
helping skin the I I have never I've
never talked to a doctor or a health
care professional who has ever said
anything positive about the insurance
companies case ever. Drug manufacturers
and insurance companies are pretty
universally reviled and seem just total
[__] Yeah, 100%. Uh I mean we we
actually covered a lot of ground this
time. I like this. We're trying to for
those of you who are still here, you
know, uh we're trying to hit a new
balance I think the last couple weeks of
like hit one main topic a little harder,
squeeze in uh a few extra things that we
think are really interesting uh for the
week and keeping Atriox hair under that
hat. Under that hat. I have a I have a
question to close this out. Get your
guys thoughts. Earlier we talked about
how Jenz is having less sex than any
other generation. Okay. Including like
right now boomers currently are having
more sex than Jen Z. So question. Do you
think Bernie Sanders has more sex than
Aiden? Easily. Easily. Dude, he Bernie
Sanders slams pipes. Shut up. Is he the
guy in our Discord? No. Is Bernie
[Applause]
Sanders free throws? Bernie Sanders is
doing rallies. Bernie Sanders gets
drained every night, dude. Uh, he's
doing rallies and he's doing rails at
the after party. I'll tell you that.
Doing rails. Yeah, actually, you know,
it is mid80s. That might be the way he's
keeping it going. Stupid. Wait, and I
have one more thing I want to sign us
off with cuz I feel obligated. I can't
let this topic die on the show because
the updates are still continuing. Okay,
there's no longer 145% tariff on China.
We've we've at least that's the title
thumbnail. Tariffs. the
ter end 30 seconds. We've paused it.
Yes. For 90 days. I mean, we could do it
that next time. I could talk about it
again.
30% and uh business is back, baby.
March. We're bringing it into the port.
Who knows what's possible. And I do want
to be clear, that's 30% more than it
was. So, yeah.
Wait. Okay. Last thing. thing for
keeping a story alive and we should end
is uh Whimo Tesla self-driving. Uh BU is
doing Chinese self-driving similar to
Whimo. They are rolling out in Europe.
They're trying to win the Europe market.
There's a big war going over who's going
to get they're doing it in Switzerland
and they're doing it in um Italy, I
believe. They're just rolling it out.
So, the war is the war is heating up,
dude. It's about to happen over the
self-driving global EV race between
China and the US. I hope a lot of people
don't die, obviously, but man, this is
going to be juicy. This is going to be
so interesting. No, no. I'm just I'm
just saying like I I I started to say
this is going to be so juicy and then
realized I was talking about like the
Kardashians or something like there are
people might die, but like it's going to
it is going to be it's going to
be Austin [__] with with Tesla in like a
month is going to be it's going to be
worth watching and we're going to do it
right here on Eliminated Stand. Thank
you guys for watching. Thanks everybody.